The `gdna fetch` command collects a new set of license token data from the configured sources.

The fetch command will normally work through the configured license usage sources and load the transformed data into the SQLite database. If the program configuration has been set, usually during report development, to make temporary tables actually not temporary then these are not updated during fetching of data. This behaviour can be changed using the `--post-process`/`-p` flag, which executes the routines required to create and update these intermediate tables. Another flags, `--time`/`-T`, is also for diagnostics and development of reports and this sets the timestamp of data imported from files to the current time rather than the modification time of the file. Note that this flag only affects plain files sources from the `licd` TCP endpoint and not reporting summary files, which have a timestamp in the filename.

To override the configured license data sources, the `--source`/`-L` flag can be used one or more times to specify the source(s) to use. These sources can be any of the supported source types, including `licd` binary reporting summary files which are written to the `reporting/` subdirectory in the `licd` process working directory. The program will treat the given source path as a `licd` summary file if any of the following are true: The filename ends with `.dat` or the filename (not including any directory path) starts with `summary` or the path is prefixed with `summary:`. In all other cases the source will be treated as a CSV file, from either a URL or a local file path. Note that when specifying a local file path to a CSV detail report, the same path is used to locate a summary file, appending `_summary` to the filename before the extension, e.g. `all_licences.csv` would have a summary file of `all_licences_summary.csv`. You do not need to specify both the detail and summary files as sources.
