When using the `ims-gateway` program with ServiceDesk Plus you have to create a `Self Client` in the Zoho Developer Console and use the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` to authenticate and obtain an access token. This token is then stored persistently for future use. Use the `sdp-auth` command to perform this initial authentication step.

The Zoho Developer Console Self-Client creation process involves the following steps:
1. Log in to the Zoho Developer Console. The URL is regional, and you can find a list of the different regional URLs in the [Zoho API documentation](https://www.zoho.com/analytics/api/v2/api-specification.html).
2. Click on "Add Client" and select "Self Client".
3. Provide a name for your client and click "Create".
4. Once the client is created, you will be provided with a `Client ID` and `Client Secret`. Save these values in your `ims-gateway.yaml` configuration file under the `sdp` section. You can opaque these values using `geneos aes password` command and adding the resulting `${enc: ...}` values to the config file.
5. Next, create a token in the Zoho Developer Console by clicking on "Generate Code", fill in the fields and then click "Create". This will provide you with an access token that you can use to authenticate with ServiceDesk Plus. The `Scope` field should be set to `SDP.Requests.ALL` to allow the `ims-gateway` to access all request-related endpoints in ServiceDesk Plus.
6. You will have a short period to use this token, depending on the selection made in the interface, up to a maximum of 10 minutes. Run the `ims-gateway sdp-auth` command within this time frame to authenticate and store the token persistently. This will allow the `ims-gateway` to access ServiceDesk Plus on your behalf without needing to re-authenticate each time.

You can pass the token in using the `--code`/`-a` flag, or you can omit it and the command will prompt you to enter it interactively. If the authentication is successful, the token will be stored, encrypted, in the `${HOME}/.config/geneos/sdp.auth.json` file for future use. The token will be automatically refreshed by the `ims-gateway` when it expires, so you won't need to re-authenticate manually until the refresh token also expires or becomes invalid.
